# p5.js Random Walker Sketch Face Project

## Project Overview
This project utilizes p5.js and the Random Walker algorithm to create sketches of human faces. It combines image processing techniques with creative coding to present digital art in a unique way. The project includes a face image processed with the Canny algorithm for edge detection and a p5.js script to generate these images.

## Demo
The demo is as folowing link: [Demo](https://syun413.github.io)
## File Structure
- `teacher_edges.png` - Face image processed with the Canny algorithm for edge detection.
- `index.html` - HTML file to run the project in a web browser.
- `random_walker_grid.js` - JavaScript file implementing the main logic for the Random Walker.
- `canny_algorithm.py` - Python script to process the original image and extract edges.

## Installation & Usage Guide

### Prerequisites
- Ensure you have [Git](https://git-scm.com/) installed on your system.
- Install [Visual Studio Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/).
- Install the [Live Server Extension](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=ritwickdey.LiveServer) in Visual Studio Code.

### Installation Steps
1. Clone the project to your local machine:
   ```bash
   git clone git@github.com:syun413/p5js-randomwalker-sketch-face.git
2. Open Visual Studio Code and navigate to the cloned project folder.

### Running the Project
1. You can change `teacher_edges.png` to your own photos by modifying `canny_algorithm.py`.
   - Change the code in containing `image_path = '/mnt/data/teacher_grayscale.png'`to your own image path.
2. Run the canny_algorithm.py to get the pictures after marginalization.
   ```bash
   python canny_algorithm.py
3. Change the code in `random_walker_grid.js`.
   - In the function `preload`, change the code in containing `edgeImage = loadImage('teacher_edges.png');` to your own path of photo.
4. In Visual Studio Code, click on the `Live Preview` button at the bottom right corner.
The browser will automatically open and display the face image generated by the Random Walker.
### Usage
Once the project is running, you will see a face sketch generated by the Random Walker based on the teacher_edges.png file.
You can replace the teacher_edges.png file to experiment with different face images.